Graph types (#1391)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/schema/constraints/list-constraints.adoc

> :description: Information about listing Neo4j's constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: Information about listing Neo4j's constraints.
```
it's usually first on the page without a newline 🤷

> = Show constraints

Reviewer: drop got to keep its `[[drop-constraint]]`, should show also do that?
```suggestion
[[list-constraints]]
= Show constraints
```

Author: No, the anchors on H1 are useless. Have removed for drop.

If all columns are required, use `SHOW CONSTRAINTS YIELD *`.
For the full command syntax to list constraints, see xref:schema/syntax.adoc#list-constraints[Syntax -> SHOW CONSTRAINTS].
The constraints listed on this page are created on the page xref:schema/constraints/create-constraints.adoc[].

[NOTE]
====
All constraints created when xref:schema/graph-types/set-graph-types.adoc[setting a graph type] will be returned by the `SHOW CONSTRAINTS` command.
Similarly, all constraints created using the xref:schema/constraints/create-constraints.adoc[`CREATE CONSTRAINT`] syntax will be returned by the `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE` command.
For more information, see the following sections of the xref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types[Show graph types] page:

* xref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#constraints-in-show-current-graph-type[Show graph types ->  Constraints in `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE`]
* xref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#graph-type-elements-in-show-constraints[Show graph types -> Graph type elements in `SHOW CONSTRAINTS`]
====

One of the output columns from `SHOW CONSTRAINTS` is the name of the constraint.

> This can be used to drop the constraint with the xref::constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#drop-constraint[`DROP CONSTRAINT` command].

Reviewer: need to update the link to DROP CONSTRAINT

| "rel_exist_param"       | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE"  | "CREATE CONSTRAINT `rel_exist_param` FOR ()-[r:`WROTE`]-() REQUIRE (r.`published`) IS NOT NULL"                    |
| "sequels"               | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_UNIQUENESS" | "CREATE CONSTRAINT `sequels` FOR ()-[r:`SEQUEL_OF`]-() REQUIRE (r.`order`) IS UNIQUE"                              |
| "wrote_year"            | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE"  | "CREATE CONSTRAINT `wrote_year` FOR ()-[r:`WROTE`]-() REQUIRE (r.`year`) IS NOT NULL"                              |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

======

[[list-constraints-result-columns]]
== Result columns for listing constraints

.Listing constraints output
[options="header", width="100%", cols="4m,6a,2m"]
|===
| Column | Description | Type

| id
| The id of the constraint. label:default-output[]
| INTEGER

| name
| Name of the constraint (explicitly set by the user or automatically assigned). label:default-output[]
| STRING

| type

> | The ConstraintType of this constraint (`NODE_PROPERTY_UNIQUENESS`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_UNIQUENESS`, `NODE_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE`, `NODE_PROPERTY_TYPE`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_TYPE`, `NODE_KEY`, or `RELATIONSHIP_KEY`). label:default-output[]

Reviewer: need to add the new constraint types to the list
```suggestion
| The ConstraintType of this constraint (`NODE_PROPERTY_UNIQUENESS`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_UNIQUENESS`, `NODE_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE`, `NODE_PROPERTY_TYPE`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_TYPE`, `NODE_LABEL_EXISTENCE`, `RELATIONSHIP_SOURCE_LABEL`, `RELATIONSHIP_TARGET_LABEL`, `NODE_KEY`, or `RELATIONSHIP_KEY`). label:default-output[]
```

| STRING

| entityType
| Type of entities this constraint represents (`NODE` or `RELATIONSHIP`). label:default-output[]
| STRING

| labelsOrTypes
| The labels or relationship types of this constraint.
The list returned will only include a single value (the name of the constrained node label or relationship type). label:default-output[]
| LIST<STRING>

| properties

> | The properties of this constraint (`null` for node label existence, relationship source label, and relationship target constraints which do not constrain properties). label:default-output[]

Reviewer: in general: your new comments around when `null` is returned is in `()` but the previous columns with `null` had ``` or `null`,  <reason>```. Might want to be consistent

| LIST<STRING>

| enforcedLabel

> | The implied labels required by a node element type or the source node and target node labels required by a relationship element type. label:default-output[] label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]

Reviewer: I would probably tie this to the constraint types (just like the null comment in properties) instead of mentioning element types here.
```suggestion
| The implied labels required by a node label existence constraint or the source node and target node labels required by a relationship source or target label constraint. label:default-output[] label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]
```

Reviewer: Or maybe
```suggestion
| The required labels of this constraint or `null`, for constraint types which do not constrain labels (constraints other than node label existence, relationship source label, and relationship target constraints). label:default-output[] label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]
```
to be more consistent with the properties column

and if you rather have the parentheses version for null:
```suggestion
| The required labels of this constraint (`null` for constraint types which do not constrain labels, constraints other than node label existence, relationship source label, and relationship target constraints). label:default-output[] label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]
```

| STRING

| ownedIndex
| The name of the index associated with the constraint or `null`, in case no index is associated with it. label:default-output[]
| STRING

| propertyType
| The property type the property is restricted to for property type constraints, or `null` for the other constraints.
label:default-output[]
| STRING

| classification
| The status of a constraint in a graph type (`dependent`, `undesignated`, or `independent`). label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]
| STRING

| options
| The options passed to `CREATE` command, for the index associated to the constraint, or `null` if no index is associated with the constraint.
| MAP

| createStatement

> | Statement used to create the constraint (`null` for node label existence, relationship source label, and relationship target constraints, as well as property existence and property constraints defined on an identifying node label or relationship type of a node or relationship element type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Statement used to create the constraint (`null` for node label existence, relationship source label, and relationship target constraints, as well as property existence and property type constraints defined on an identifying node label or relationship type of a node or relationship element type).
```

Reviewer: might be simpler to tie it to the classification column since we are on the show constraints page
```suggestion
| Statement used to create the constraint (`null` for constraints with `dependent` classification).
```

| LIST<STRING>

| properties
| The properties of this constraint, or `null` for node label existence, relationship source label, and relationship target constraints which do not constrain properties. label:default-output[]
| LIST<STRING>

| enforcedLabel

> | The implied labels required by a node label existence constraint or the source node and target node labels required by a relationship source or target label constraint. label:default-output[] label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The implied labels required by a node label existence constraint or the source node and target node labels required by a relationship source or target label constraint, or `null` for other constraints which do not constrain labels. label:default-output[] label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]
```
or
```suggestion
| The implied labels required by a node label existence constraint or the source node and target node labels required by a relationship source or target label constraint, or `null` for the other constraints. label:default-output[] label:cypher[Cypher 25 only] label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2025.xx]
```
might still be good to mention that

| MAP

| createStatement

> | Statement used to create the constraint, or `null` for constraints with `dependent` classification.

Reviewer: Side note on this: I know I added a comment on this on the vector type docs PR as well, might need to sync them up at some point since both features makes this column return null in some cases.
